I'm joined right now by Andy din the
owner of TSM to talk about his roster
changes making it a franchise and more
so first off congratulations on making
it into the NA LCS were you ever
concerned at all to be truthfully honest
I wasn't very concerned because I
thought that we had a relational
application and that there's practically
no reason for right to not let us in LCS
were you
so whenever the final lineup came out
ten teams four new ones were you
surprised at all by any of the decisions
they made well I think I I see it from
two perspectives right I was pretty
surprised by a couple of teams that did
get in but the same time during the
application process those teams probably
went out like either partner up with
other people or bringing additional
people into their company that really
helped strengthen their application and
really fix the areas that they're weaken
so it's hard to tell right now let's see
how these performance teams perform from
like a business perspective and also
like a competitive perspective next year
I'm kind of disappointed though and
similarly like the team's rosters that
were built this year because I felt like
they could have built it in a much
better way but they they didn't put that
much effort into it do you think it was
an effort thing or a timing thing
because I I've everything I've heard is
that our season has just been insane and
so if you're maybe a new team I assume
it's just really hard to kind of hit
this whole thing together well I mean
from a new team perspective ray the way
riot made the rules
practically none of the demmick teams
could sign players until the 20th so it
was like a kind of like an even level
playing field for signing talent and I
think one of the biggest things is that
you know a lot of these supports owners
bought teams right but they're not
necessarily the ones running it they're
hired people to run it and so it so
creates this environment where the
decision makers are not the ones
actually running it so it they have to
go through an approval process versus
like versus like the existing teams that
are able to make decisions within like a
matter of seconds or minutes those guys
have a competitive advantage there so I
think as the next season goes on and
we have more seasons on that dynamic
will change but I guess there's like a
small competitive advantage there do you
expect any of these new a little bit of
noise like do you do you expect any of
these new teams to be competitive in
xsplit especially when you're kind of
questioning some of their rosters yes so
it's it's hard to tell right because
we're there's there's a major changes
first off the games completely changed
and it's a lot different so what that
means is that even the playing field for
sure
the second thing really is that it's the
best of one now so you can see a lot of
different things which is really
exciting
and so I think that the like there's
gonna be a lot of upsets and by the time
summer rolls around it'll definitely
showcase the teams that are actually
really strong like you know a good
example is I don't want to I'm not
really called anyone out outright this
is just an example because this is like
a prime example but like if you look at
fly class they're really strong with
spring and then they were really weak in
summer right and so for every spring
split things are a lot more volatile
just because of major roster changes
players need to adapt new big big
changes and so I think that through time
we'll just be able to tell so we have
we're gonna see a lot of different
rosters and speaking of rosters you have
made some big changes to yours over the
course of this offseason actually three
of the five players are different so
what maybe you can take me through the
process of you know the last interview
we did was right after the game and
world final or sorry World Championships
you know what has happened since then
for you to arrive at this roster well I
mean it wasn't a like it wasn't a fast
decision to just make you know it wasn't
like a fast decision that we came to
like okay we're gonna make really really
big changes it was like it was a process
we've already had a lot of issues with
their current lineup for you know I
would say over a year now and really at
the last year we so basically after we
lost the first worlds with this current
lineup we knew that we had major issues
with that roster
we spent that whole entire year to try
to fix the issues that we thought were
glaring and during the whole entire year
we had a huge emphasis on it from you
know morning prep to reviews to after
reviews and we spent so much time on it
we tried to tackle it from multiple
angles and it just didn't work and so to
give you insight right a lot of TSM's
issues are shotcalling and communication
and we put a huge emphasis on it on
specific players and you know and no
matter how much we tried we couldn't
solve it that's why we decided to make
changes it wasn't like it wasn't like
okay we went to worlds with this lineup
and all of a sudden I just decided to
replace like three players for a whole
entire year now we had major issues and
we tried to fix and it just didn't work
all right so let's go sort of lane by
lane well start with hon sir Eustace you
decided to Koran so why why keep on sir
on the top lane stuff so you know swap
him out for a different top liner well I
mean if you look at Han Suri he's not
only a North American player but he's
practically topped to you in his role
and there's no one in the West that we
would rather have than him yeah okay so
then I think a lot of people were
interested in your decision-making with
the jungle side so Sven disappeared or
switching over to cloud nine and no
longer part of the TSM lineup instead
we're gonna see Mike Young come in who's
a bit of a rookie talent and a lot of
people we're speculating you know or
questioning why not bring something like
contracts in if especially if you're
looking for a North American talent why
not somebody with a little bit more
experience on the jungle side what about
Mike Young allowed or made you decide to
sort bring him into the roster I I think
that the way we built our roster it
didn't really come down to like a player
specific decision and what I mean by
that is that we didn't build a roster
thinking like oh we need absolutely need
to have this player but we think of like
core values and like characteristics
that we really wanted and even like
strong communication attributes traits
so like when we were looking to build a
roster for this year we're looking at
players that can communicate and that
could shock all because I mean have you
noticed TSM for a long time now
we win matches through winning lanes and
practically playing like silico and
that's been a main focus of ours and and
if you look at our roster as a whole we
had practically strong laners in every
single position but we had players that
were we get communicating and a shot
calling just wasn't strong from like a
whole entire team perspective people
didn't communicate things that were
required and so when we went to build a
roster it wasn't like oh we want Mike
Young or it wasn't like we want to make
major changes we wanted to think we're
thinking like how do we put together
strong players with strong communication
and what roles make the most sense to
make changes in to achieve that because
if you look at it from like a world's
perspective practically every single
team they all have strong laners that
our world class and the difference
between each team is their communication
and theirs and their teamwork right and
we definitely wanted like to pull in a
leader that can come in and really help
our team communicate during the games
yeah and you think Mike is that leader
no so by getting Mike he not only is he
super promising but he's really strong
mechanically he's showing time and time
again that he's willing to communicate
and work really hard on that I mean if
you look at a stream right he's very
analytical
he explains all of his moves the way he
processes information and thinks about
the game it's really smart right he's
gonna have like difficult challenges
because he's like a carry focused
jungler well I think that with his
mindset and the way he thinks about the
game he can definitely fix that there
are players that are strong mechanically
cuz they are really good and they have a
lot of repetition and there's players
that like really analyze the game and
think about it and they have less
mechanical skill but they are able to
like practice more effectively and work
together with the rest of the players
and I think that he's gonna be a core
player to helping us succeed next year
and by getting Mike it allowed us to
pick up mithi now we'll move down to the
mid lane was there ever any chance that
you were gonna have beard around or is
he just like so
word to the TSM identity and the
teamwork and such a strong player that
you know doesn't matter well I mean the
way we're going about this interview
right we're like tackling it from every
single position and as I said when we
built our roster we thought about it as
more of how do we yeah how do we build a
cohesive unit and to be simply honest
there's just no practical like there's
no possible way we would replace beard
it's been a pleasure to work with him
every every single part of this ever
joined our organization every single
coaching staff that's ever coached Frost
has loved working with him super humble
Sarita's to work with and really
receptive to criticism and so he's like
the ideal player that you'd want and so
again I understand that the roster was a
sort of cohesive holistic look how does
Savannah and mithy fit into that sort of
broader strategy so so let's tackle TSA
let's go back to TSM's issues ray and
I'll be very specific about it so the
way the game works for now is
communication is super core and
communication between jungle and support
is super super important and generally
how things are played out is that laners
focus on lane they share information and
general and support work together to get
vision with laners and tsm's biggest
weakness is that lanes would communicate
but for our specific roles that require
more communication like support and
jungle they they were really weak at
communicating so if you look at cement
and bio as a player they are great
players they're top players in the role
within na but they did not work well
together and what I mean by that is so
BIOS rookie and he looks really
promising right and spends mechanics are
insane when he pops off he crushes and
he carries super hard but the issue is
that when TSM commits communicates our
Sun actually gets compete at the highest
level we get crushed because the thing
is that sven and bios communication is
it's just honestly suboptimal
and that's the reason why we we didn't
we didn't do a well in the world stage
now it's not only their communication
that it's about tomorrow but our the
whole entire team as a whole right so at
Worlds any of our players could really
could have really stepped up and
communicated more but they didn't and
that's why we got stomped so hard in
groups but the problem is that though
with players in other roles they've
shown case times where they were
steadily improving their communication
and in spann and bios case we knew for a
fact that if we made we're going to 2018
we need to tell these replace one of
them bio would perform super well like
he's a top player like so what I mean by
self optimal it's only about their
communication right but bio is playing
with a very communicative generator that
that is a leader that takes initiative
that communicates with him and gets him
to go invade with him then Bao would be
still top tier like he would you'd be a
world class if you can get someone that
will push him to improve and to work
with him and it's vice versa what's
meant to you if Sven had been was
playing with someone that is super
communicative really outgoing that it
pushes him to communicate then they
would also fit so so it's not that they
they were placed because they aren't
good it's just that they did not fit
well together at all
do you kind of goat I'm saying it's like
violence yeah it's just not competitive
as compatible yeah so like as Sven was
playing with mithi so not not the ad
carry van but spent are Sven if he was
playing with Mitty he would look so much
better and a bow is playing with mitt
the equivalent of the jungler he would
look so much better and so we knew for a
fact that going into 2018 no matter what
we did we needed to get a shock collar
from the jungle or the support and
that's what that's that's how we thought
about building our roster going to 2018
it wasn't about any one specific
individual performance because you look
at TSM right and we win because we win
Lane and yeah we would TSM wins North
America's we win Lane and that's not
that's not the best way to train that's
not the best Monta to have so then you
bring in mithi because he's gonna be
really helpful on the shot coming
perspective and really like make sure
that the jungle support dynamic is good
and then did Sven just fall in place I
assume because he has the existing
relationship
with methey they've got kind of this
like botlane packaged situation so
really a couple things right
Sven is Sven is purely just I mean he's
like a top
ATC in the West right so like we won't
really want to admit it but I'm not
gonna like discount spend it's like oh
we only want his van because one myth
you spent is you know just as good a
devil and it's gotta be a very close and
we're gonna we're gonna see the next
plate and summer who's the better et
Kerry right but we knew for a fact that
getting a shock collar was our top
priority and you know if you look at the
general option right there's not
practically no like good top-tier shock
collars in the West that in the jungle
oh really
I mean it before the season before rain
over went to TL he is probably the only
one that came to mind but it turns out
like he didn't really shock call so
really the best move go in 2018 was to
get myth Ian spendin to do they not only
not only does mithy shock all right but
the synergy between span and methey just
made more sense to get them as a package
versus getting mithy and double together
that could be a major risk because what
have they're not compatible similar to
you know yellow star in double afraid if
we got them there could be very well be
a case where they're not compatible a
lot of people on yellow star for
having terrible mechanics but players
can be very good and does not be
compatible they can find success another
team I'm sure I'm sure that look I'm
sure this fan will find a lot of success
a lot more success with its movie spend
hour span so your previous fin yeah so I
Arslan I promise you he's gonna find a
lot of success with smoothie he's an
aggressive jungler he's high mechanical
like he's highly talented talented he
gets you know top five top like top
ranking and so look you very easily with
no effort and with playing up with the
veteran support that shot calls he's
gonna do so much better and so I think
that like even with CLG to I promise you
Bob's gonna be so much more compatible
at the reigning over if reignover is
actually able to step up back to where
he was so we're really gonna see if it
was actually the TL curse or reign over
just being bad right
but so right now he's game over but he
could very well go back to being a great
player you don't really know because
sometimes rosters are not compatible and
our roster just wasn't right so then
there's the whole lineup the only
question I also have kind of as a fall
upon the roster stuff is who you know
and in some teams you have players that
are making a lot of the decisions on who
to bring in so I don't know if it's berg
or if it's entirely you or if you're
still working with parth on and stuff
like how does this roster come about and
sort of who's overseeing the
construction of it yes so I think really
going to the offseason from a feedback
perspective we we got feedback right but
every single year the decision-making
for talent is solely up to me from like
a final decision standpoint right so
like there there's been lots of
occasions where you know in Prior off
seasons we had to choose between like
yellow star and peekaboo who do I think
would be better 8 and we went yellow
star which you know it was a mistake on
my part and we had to fix that and when
I mean mistake it's not I'm not trying
to on yellow star and saying he's a
bad player it wasn't it wasn't
compatible and we still took second but
it wasn't it didn't live up to the
expectations of TSM we want to win you
know there's been several cases where
I've made the wrong decision but for the
most part I try really we take a lot of
feedback from every single person and we
take up multiple things in an account
and then we make a decision of course
the final decision is up to me
but there's rarely ever a case where I
go against other peoples while other
people want unless I feel really
strongly about it and then also kind of
curious there's been some fans who have
said I don't know this TSM anymore
they're mostly European team you know
people are questioning whether or not
they want to keep rooting for the team
because I feel like the identity of it
has changed or whatever what would you
say to fans who are unsure about their
allegiance to TSM next year well I mean
TSM dates way way back right yet
understand that like since the inception
of TSM we weren't even a purely North
American team and
before even the North American LCS
things weren't split regionally we were
just a team that competed
internationally and until probably
halfway through TSM that LCS was
introduced when I was even still a
player and so when I think of TSM and
when I think of all of these other
brands I think of our brand specifically
as a global brand that is trying to
compete internationally when we wouldn't
na LCS I I'm happy for the players that
join it and they they're able to find
success there but it's more or less an
expectation right so like the
expectation of like TSM we're not going
to the like going to the finals is
similar to probably a typical owner
expecting their players to not go to
relegations and I'm not trying to say
that to like trash talk it's just that
we've been here for so long yeah our
standard is high and the players that
join they understand that it's high and
their expectations of our fans are high
to you they want us to compete at the
world stage so I mean but I don't see I
don't see TSM as a that's just a purely
North American brand if we go to Europe
where one of the most what Wallach teams
there in North America and yeah we've
we've always been a global Brennan if
you look at most the LCS now you don't
really see any pure North American teams
like those teams that are trying to like
ride the story of oh we're pure any
breed talent team they're just trying to
write a narrative and they're not even
there to win because relative like
realistically right if you look at a lot
of the NA talent and silic you we have
like a third of the player base as much
as Europe right and a third of the rank
ranked players as Korea and so they have
a lot more options to choose from and so
for TSM we're always gonna try to go
with the best talent though increase our
odds of winning the most very very good
this has been super insightful it's
great it's cool to hear sort of the
philosophy that you guys are instilling
for your roster and also for a success
next year kind of winding down the
interview a lot of people are saying is
it going to be teal or TSM number one
next year do you and you tweeted
yesterday saying like the TSM CLG
rivalry is dead that whole brand is dead
is all about tl TSM I know you're kind
of joking a little bit there but what
are your expectations for next year for
team are you afraid at all of the TL
roster that they've built and you know
what are you or your guesses for who's
gonna be your main rival so to be
perfectly honest with that I gotta
tweeted that out just for fun cuz I
wanted like a reaction and I was bored
and you know I wanted to spice things up
for the season because I'm truly excited
that we're going into the season next
year with all these new changes you know
like BIOS going to CLG and they're scary
roster I mean I'm not discounting them I
said that just to spice things up but
they're scary Roscoe they're gonna have
brain over in bio and but I was like
really mechanically talented and
reignover should be communicative I know
I made fun of him earlier just for fun
but like their roster should be shown
they've darshan they have kooky and who
he's like a pretty like really good
players even though people make fun of
him for his mechanics he's like from a
teamwork respective he's really good 6a
didn't do too well last season but I'm
sure he'll be able to pick it up so they
have a strong roster so I Trude that out
cuz I i wanted to spice things up i felt
like for the last couple years the
rivalry for CLG and TSM has honestly
like kind of like died down but going to
this new season things were freakin
hyped man like teal has a new roster
steve spent a bunch of money he bought
me a couple cars as well and it's
kidding ya know but I'm super excited
for teals roster clg's roster and even
cnn's roster even though they lost
impact I could still see them being
pretty good I know a lot of people like
are thrashing on licorice but he's uh
he's really promising he's uh you know
if he wasn't on it and I'll see sa mood
like I'm pretty sure a lot of teams
would have wanted him to be like on
their Academy of course like if he's
gonna go to test c9 who would not to be
their starter so I think that a lot of
people are discounting licorice he could
perform he could not but he's not like
some random scrub that you know they
just picked up to like a fill like fill
the roster rate so super excited I think
it's gonna be a competitive split who's
your main rival who's my main rival I
mean to be honest with you from a track
record perspective I would probably say
cloud 9 and CLG because like from from
like a teal perspective Rae honestly
they've probably signed like 90% of the
players in LCS
and they still somehow suck so I'm
making fun of Steve real hard to hear
right like he's probably sound like 90%
of the players in LCS so but like with
their roster they picked up there's no
way they're not gonna succeed I mean
they have they're like really mismanaged
their team to be outside to top for it I
have to say well I can't wait till
people replay this clip halfway through
whatever there's six or seven plays
there's no way TL should take blowed up
for it they take below top four oh my
god this is sad that's a sin I mean what
do you think Chavez I mean yes I do
think I think everyone kind of agrees I
mean I think most so who's gonna be top
four by order next by order T at T it by
the end of the the split TSM barely over
TL and then c9 and CLG equal I think
there's really
they'll be tied for the tiebreaker
c9 only because Jack already seems to
really pull stuff off with talent that
people under like under eight yeah Jack
does pretty well so so you're saying
field use the new fourth place team CL
dues the new fourth place team yes yes
for sure Nick Allen is the fourth place
team owner for sure okay so what about
playoffs playoffs
TSM teal finals who wins I'll give it to
TSM and spring and TL in summer whoa
spicy they'll have the whole year to
figure stuff out and what are the scores
and the playoffs I can't I can't retake
the scores look we didn't wrap this up
because my car is gonna get a ticket if
we don't but is there anything you want
to say to any of the TSM fans out there
honestly guys thanks for following my
journey thanks for following TSM I know
it's been a really disappointment and
you guys followed us and our players for
the personality but yeah I mean sorry we
had to make tough decisions I'm always
gonna stay true to why I built TSM and
you
I want to do well worlds and honestly in
this video interview I want to say one
win win worlds but let's just like baby
steps first let's let's get out of
groups focus on sometimes if we do and
we'll go from there
but anyways thanks for really supporting
us even through these tough changes it
means a lot to me and hopefully I didn't
make terrible decisions and disappoint
you guys good well I'm excited to see
how TSM does next year and to interview
your new players I think the roster is
going to be great and I really like all
those players to it so it's gonna be fun
thank you so much for the interview
congratulations on making it into the
LCS and best luck next year for everyone
else you can check out the rest of my
coverage of all things eSports right
here on my youtube channel
hey guys Travis still has me under a
contract for like the next five minutes
it's it's more like slavery indentured
servitude where I have to record an
outro for him so you can go support him
at Travis gaffer dot-com slash support
and hopefully buy out my contract save
me thank you